README.md, before:

# parse-server-example

Example project using the [parse-server](https://github.com/ParsePlatform/parse-server) module on Express.

Read the full Parse Server guide here: https://github.com/ParsePlatform/parse-server/wiki/Parse-Server-Guide

### For Local Development

* Make sure you have at least Node 4.3. `node --version`
* Clone this repo and change directory to it.
* `npm install`
* Install mongo locally using http://docs.mongodb.org/master/tutorial/install-mongodb-on-os-x/
* Run `mongo` to connect to your database, just to make sure it's working. Once you see a mongo prompt, exit with Control-D
* Run the server with: `npm start`
* By default it will use a path of /parse for the API routes.  To change this, or use older client SDKs, run `export PARSE_MOUNT=/1` before launching the server.
* You now have a database named "dev" that contains your Parse data
* Install ngrok and you can test with devices

### Getting Started With Heroku + mLab Development

#### With the Heroku Button

[![Deploy](https://www.herokucdn.com/deploy/button.png)](https://heroku.com/deploy)

#### Without It

* Clone the repo and change directory to it
* Log in with the [Heroku Toolbelt](https://toolbelt.heroku.com/) and create an app: `heroku create`
* Use the [mLab addon](https://elements.heroku.com/addons/mongolab): `heroku addons:create mongolab:sandbox --app YourAppName`
* By default it will use a path of /parse for the API routes.  To change this, or use older client SDKs, run `heroku config:set PARSE_MOUNT=/1`
* Deploy it with: `git push heroku master`

### Getting Started With AWS Elastic Beanstalk

#### With the Deploy to AWS Button

<a title="Deploy to AWS" href="https://console.aws.amazon.com/elasticbeanstalk/home?region=us-west-2#/newApplication?applicationName=ParseServer&solutionStackName=Node.js&tierName=WebServer&sourceBundleUrl=https://s3.amazonaws.com/elasticbeanstalk-samples-us-east-1/eb-parse-server-sample/parse-server-example.zip" target="_blank"><img src="http://d0.awsstatic.com/product-marketing/Elastic%20Beanstalk/deploy-to-aws.png" height="40"></a>

#### Without It

* Clone the repo and change directory to it
* Log in with the [AWS Elastic Beanstalk CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticbeanstalk/latest/dg/eb-cli3-install.html), select a region, and create an app: `eb init`
* Create an environment and pass in MongoDB URI, App ID, and Master Key: `eb create --envvars DATABASE_URI=<replace with URI>,APP_ID=<replace with Parse app ID>,MASTER_KEY=<replace with Parse master key>`

### Getting Started With Microsoft Azure App Service

#### With the Deploy to Azure Button

[![Deploy to Azure](http://azuredeploy.net/deploybutton.png)](https://azuredeploy.net/)

#### Without It

A detailed tutorial is available here:
[Azure welcomes Parse developers](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/blog/azure-welcomes-parse-developers/)


### Getting Started With Google App Engine

1. Clone the repo and change directory to it 
1. Create a project in the [Google Cloud Platform Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/).
1. [Enable billing](https://console.cloud.google.com/project/_/settings) for your project.
1. Install the [Google Cloud SDK](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/).
1. Setup a MongoDB server.  You have a few options:
  1. Create a Google Compute Engine virtual machine with [MongoDB pre-installed](https://cloud.google.com/launcher/?q=mongodb).
  1. Use [MongoLab](https://mongolab.com/google/) to create a free MongoDB deployment on Google Cloud Platform.
1. Modify `app.yaml` to update your environment variables.
1. Delete `Dockerfile`
1. Deploy it with `gcloud preview app deploy`

A detailed tutorial is available here:
[Running Parse server on Google App Engine](https://cloud.google.com/nodejs/resources/frameworks/parse-server)

### Getting Started With Scalingo

#### With the Scalingo button

[![Deploy to Scalingo](https://cdn.scalingo.com/deploy/button.svg)](https://my.scalingo.com/deploy)

#### Without it

* Clone the repo and change directory to it
* Log in with the [Scalingo CLI](http://cli.scalingo.com/) and create an app: `scalingo create my-parse`
* Use the [Scalingo MongoDB addon](https://scalingo.com/addons/scalingo-mongodb): `scalingo addons-add scalingo-mongodb free`
* Setup MongoDB connection string: `scalingo env-set DATABASE_URI='$SCALINGO_MONGO_URL'`
* By default it will use a path of /parse for the API routes. To change this, or use older client SDKs, run `scalingo env-set PARSE_MOUNT=/1`
* Deploy it with: `git push scalingo master`

# Using it

Before using it, you can access a test page to verify if the basic setup is working fine [http://localhost:1337/test](http://localhost:1337/test).
Then you can use the REST API, the JavaScript SDK, and any of our open-source SDKs:

Example request to a server running locally:

```curl
curl -X POST \
  -H "X-Parse-Application-Id: myAppId" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"score":1337,"playerName":"Sean Plott","cheatMode":false}' \
  http://localhost:1337/parse/classes/GameScore
  
curl -X POST \
  -H "X-Parse-Application-Id: myAppId" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{}' \
  http://localhost:1337/parse/functions/hello
```

Example using it via JavaScript:

```javascript
Parse.initialize('myAppId','unused');
Parse.serverURL = 'https://whatever.herokuapp.com';

var obj = new Parse.Object('GameScore');
obj.set('score',1337);
obj.save().then(function(obj) {
  console.log(obj.toJSON());
  var query = new Parse.Query('GameScore');
  query.get(obj.id).then(function(objAgain) {
    console.log(objAgain.toJSON());
  }, function(err) {console.log(err); });
}, function(err) { console.log(err); });
```

Example using it on Android:
```java
//in your application class

Parse.initialize(new Parse.Configuration.Builder(getApplicationContext())
  .applicationId("myAppId")
  .server("http://myServerUrl/parse/")   // '/' important after 'parse'
  .build());

ParseObject testObject = new ParseObject("TestObject");
testObject.put("foo", "bar");
testObject.saveInBackground();
```
Example using it on iOS (Swift):
```swift
//in your AppDelegate

Parse.initializeWithConfiguration(ParseClientConfiguration(block: { (configuration: ParseMutableClientConfiguration) -> Void in
  configuration.server = "https://<# Your Server URL #>/parse/" // '/' important after 'parse'
  configuration.applicationId = "<# Your APP_ID #>"
}))
```
You can change the server URL in all of the open-source SDKs, but we're releasing new builds which provide initialization time configuration of this property.

Commit message:

Add OpenShift template
* The template should be used with the `$ oc new-app` command
  and the `-f` flag to specify the path to the file
* Adds section on the README about OpenShift deployment

Signed-off-by: Joao Goncalves <jsvgoncalves@redhat.com>

README.md, after:

# parse-server-example

Example project using the [parse-server](https://github.com/ParsePlatform/parse-server) module on Express.

Read the full Parse Server guide here: https://github.com/ParsePlatform/parse-server/wiki/Parse-Server-Guide

### For Local Development

* Make sure you have at least Node 4.3. `node --version`
* Clone this repo and change directory to it.
* `npm install`
* Install mongo locally using http://docs.mongodb.org/master/tutorial/install-mongodb-on-os-x/
* Run `mongo` to connect to your database, just to make sure it's working. Once you see a mongo prompt, exit with Control-D
* Run the server with: `npm start`
* By default it will use a path of /parse for the API routes.  To change this, or use older client SDKs, run `export PARSE_MOUNT=/1` before launching the server.
* You now have a database named "dev" that contains your Parse data
* Install ngrok and you can test with devices

### Getting Started With Heroku + mLab Development

#### With the Heroku Button

[![Deploy](https://www.herokucdn.com/deploy/button.png)](https://heroku.com/deploy)

#### Without It

* Clone the repo and change directory to it
* Log in with the [Heroku Toolbelt](https://toolbelt.heroku.com/) and create an app: `heroku create`
* Use the [mLab addon](https://elements.heroku.com/addons/mongolab): `heroku addons:create mongolab:sandbox --app YourAppName`
* By default it will use a path of /parse for the API routes.  To change this, or use older client SDKs, run `heroku config:set PARSE_MOUNT=/1`
* Deploy it with: `git push heroku master`

### Getting Started With AWS Elastic Beanstalk

#### With the Deploy to AWS Button

<a title="Deploy to AWS" href="https://console.aws.amazon.com/elasticbeanstalk/home?region=us-west-2#/newApplication?applicationName=ParseServer&solutionStackName=Node.js&tierName=WebServer&sourceBundleUrl=https://s3.amazonaws.com/elasticbeanstalk-samples-us-east-1/eb-parse-server-sample/parse-server-example.zip" target="_blank"><img src="http://d0.awsstatic.com/product-marketing/Elastic%20Beanstalk/deploy-to-aws.png" height="40"></a>

#### Without It

* Clone the repo and change directory to it
* Log in with the [AWS Elastic Beanstalk CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticbeanstalk/latest/dg/eb-cli3-install.html), select a region, and create an app: `eb init`
* Create an environment and pass in MongoDB URI, App ID, and Master Key: `eb create --envvars DATABASE_URI=<replace with URI>,APP_ID=<replace with Parse app ID>,MASTER_KEY=<replace with Parse master key>`

### Getting Started With Microsoft Azure App Service

#### With the Deploy to Azure Button

[![Deploy to Azure](http://azuredeploy.net/deploybutton.png)](https://azuredeploy.net/)

#### Without It

A detailed tutorial is available here:
[Azure welcomes Parse developers](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/blog/azure-welcomes-parse-developers/)


### Getting Started With Google App Engine

1. Clone the repo and change directory to it 
1. Create a project in the [Google Cloud Platform Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/).
1. [Enable billing](https://console.cloud.google.com/project/_/settings) for your project.
1. Install the [Google Cloud SDK](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/).
1. Setup a MongoDB server.  You have a few options:
  1. Create a Google Compute Engine virtual machine with [MongoDB pre-installed](https://cloud.google.com/launcher/?q=mongodb).
  1. Use [MongoLab](https://mongolab.com/google/) to create a free MongoDB deployment on Google Cloud Platform.
1. Modify `app.yaml` to update your environment variables.
1. Delete `Dockerfile`
1. Deploy it with `gcloud preview app deploy`

A detailed tutorial is available here:
[Running Parse server on Google App Engine](https://cloud.google.com/nodejs/resources/frameworks/parse-server)

### Getting Started With Scalingo

#### With the Scalingo button

[![Deploy to Scalingo](https://cdn.scalingo.com/deploy/button.svg)](https://my.scalingo.com/deploy)

#### Without it

* Clone the repo and change directory to it
* Log in with the [Scalingo CLI](http://cli.scalingo.com/) and create an app: `scalingo create my-parse`
* Use the [Scalingo MongoDB addon](https://scalingo.com/addons/scalingo-mongodb): `scalingo addons-add scalingo-mongodb free`
* Setup MongoDB connection string: `scalingo env-set DATABASE_URI='$SCALINGO_MONGO_URL'`
* By default it will use a path of /parse for the API routes. To change this, or use older client SDKs, run `scalingo env-set PARSE_MOUNT=/1`
* Deploy it with: `git push scalingo master`

### Getting Started With OpenShift Online (Next Gen)

1. Register for a free [OpenShift Online (Next Gen) account](http://www.openshift.com/devpreview/register.html)
1. Create a project in the [OpenShift Online Console](https://console.preview.openshift.com/console/).
1. Install the [OpenShift CLI](https://docs.openshift.com/online/getting_started/beyond_the_basics.html#btb-installing-the-openshift-cli).
1. Add the Parse Server template to your project: `oc create -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ParsePlatform/parse-server-example/master/openshift.json`
1. Deploy Parse Server from the web console
  1. Open your project in the [OpenShift Online Console](https://console.preview.openshift.com/console/):
  1. Click **Add to Project** from the top navigation
  1. Scroll down and select **NodeJS > Parse Server**
  1. (Optionally) Update the Parse Server settings (parameters)
  1. Click **Create**

A detailed tutorial is available here:
[Running Parse Server on OpenShift Online (Next Gen)](https://blog.openshift.com/parse-server/)

# Using it

Before using it, you can access a test page to verify if the basic setup is working fine [http://localhost:1337/test](http://localhost:1337/test).
Then you can use the REST API, the JavaScript SDK, and any of our open-source SDKs:

Example request to a server running locally:

```curl
curl -X POST \
  -H "X-Parse-Application-Id: myAppId" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"score":1337,"playerName":"Sean Plott","cheatMode":false}' \
  http://localhost:1337/parse/classes/GameScore
  
curl -X POST \
  -H "X-Parse-Application-Id: myAppId" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{}' \
  http://localhost:1337/parse/functions/hello
```

Example using it via JavaScript:

```javascript
Parse.initialize('myAppId','unused');
Parse.serverURL = 'https://whatever.herokuapp.com';

var obj = new Parse.Object('GameScore');
obj.set('score',1337);
obj.save().then(function(obj) {
  console.log(obj.toJSON());
  var query = new Parse.Query('GameScore');
  query.get(obj.id).then(function(objAgain) {
    console.log(objAgain.toJSON());
  }, function(err) {console.log(err); });
}, function(err) { console.log(err); });
```

Example using it on Android:
```java
//in your application class

Parse.initialize(new Parse.Configuration.Builder(getApplicationContext())
  .applicationId("myAppId")
  .server("http://myServerUrl/parse/")   // '/' important after 'parse'
  .build());

ParseObject testObject = new ParseObject("TestObject");
testObject.put("foo", "bar");
testObject.saveInBackground();
```
Example using it on iOS (Swift):
```swift
//in your AppDelegate

Parse.initializeWithConfiguration(ParseClientConfiguration(block: { (configuration: ParseMutableClientConfiguration) -> Void in
  configuration.server = "https://<# Your Server URL #>/parse/" // '/' important after 'parse'
  configuration.applicationId = "<# Your APP_ID #>"
}))
```
You can change the server URL in all of the open-source SDKs, but we're releasing new builds which provide initialization time configuration of this property.
